
dvi2bitmap
==========

Configuring and building
------------------------

To configure and build:

    ./configure
    make

You can override the C++ compiler the configure script will choose by
setting the environment variable CXX, either via `CXX=cxx ./configure'
or `env CXX=cxx ./configure', depending on your shell.

To install, just copy the executable dvi2bitmap wherever you want it
to live.  The program generates XBM bitmaps by default.  

If you want it to be able to generate GIFs, then give the configure
option `--enable-gif'.  The GIF format is the copyright of CompuServe.
As far as I understand it, one does not need a licence from CompuServe
if one is distributing non-commercial, not-for-profit software, such
as this.  You probably shouldn't enable GIF support when you build
this program unless you're in that category as well.  But don't listen
to me: there's a much fuller account of the whole sorry business in
the comp.graphics.misc FAQ at, for example,
<http://www.lib.ox.ac.uk/internet/news/faq/archive/graphics.fileformats-faq.part1.html>

The program can work with the kpathsea library.  This is the same
path-searching library which several TeX implementations use to find
fonts (and more).  If you wish to use this, then give the option
`--with-kpathsea' to the configure command, and if the library is
installed on your machine, the program will use it.

The program builds successfully on (at least) egcs-2.90, Sun Workshop
C++ 5.0, and Alpha Digital C++ 6.0.  It should be written in
standards-conforming C++, so if it doesn't build then (1) it's not as
conformant as I think it is (in which case please tell me), (2) your
compiler is not as conformant as you think it is (in which case please
don't tell me), or (3) you need to invoke some magic to get the
compiler to be conformant (in which case tell me, if there's something
I can do in the autoconfigure script).


Documentation
-------------

See doc.tar -- there are fuller installation instructions there.
There's also a man-page in dvi2bitmap.1, but this is not necessarily
as up-to-date as the main documentation.


